# Traces Schema Support
The next section provides the Simple Schema for Observability support which conforms with the OTEL specification.

- traces.mapping presents the template mapping for creating the Simple Schema for Observability index
- traces.schema presents the json schema validation for verification of a trace document conforms to the mapping structure

## Traces
see [OTEL traces convention](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/tree/main/semantic_conventions/trace)

Traces in are defined implicitly by their Spans - In particular, a Trace can be thought of as a directed acyclic graph (DAG) of Spans, where the edges between Spans are defined as parent/child relationship.

## Spans
A span represents an operation within a transaction. Each Span encapsulates the following state:

* An operation name
* start and finish timestamp
* Attributes list of key-value pairs.
* Set of Events, each of which is itself a tuple (timestamp, name, Attributes)
* Parent's Span identifier.
* Links to causally-related Spans (via the SpanContext of those related Spans).
* SpanContext information required to reference a Span. 

### SpanContext
Represents all the information that identifies Span in the Trace and is propagated to child Spans and across process boundaries.
A **SpanContext** contains the tracing identifiers and the options that are propagated from parent to child Spans.

* TraceId  - It is worldwide unique with practically sufficient probability by being made as 16 randomly generated bytes - used to group all spans for a specific trace together across all processes. 
* SpanId  -  It is the identifier for a span, globally unique with practically sufficient probability by being made as 8 randomly generated bytes. When passed to a child Span this identifier becomes the parent span id for the child Span.
* Tracestate - carries tracing-system specific context in a list of key value pairs. Tracestate allows different vendors propagate additional information and inter-operate with their legacy Id formats. For more details see this.

Additional fields can be supported via the Attributes key/value store see [traces](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/trace/semantic_conventions/README.md)

### Structure
The default fields that are supported by the traces are
- **TraceId**  : It is worldwide unique with practically sufficient probability by being made as 16 randomly generated bytes - used to group all spans for a specific trace together across all processes.
- **SpanId**   : It is the identifier for a span, globally unique with practically sufficient probability by being made as 8 randomly generated bytes. When passed to a child Span this identifier becomes the parent span id for the child Span.
- **ParentId** : It is the identifier for a span's parent span.
- **TraceState** : carries tracing-system specific context in a list of key value pairs. Tracestate allows different vendors propagate additional information and inter-operate with their legacy Id formats. For more details see this.

- **Name**   :  String representing the span's name   
- **Kind** 
  - SpanKind.CLIENT	
  - SpanKind.SERVER	
  - SpanKind.CONSUMER
  - SpanKind.PRODUCER
  - SpanKind.INTERNAL

- **StartTime** : Start time of the event
- **EndTime**   : End time of the event
- **Attributes**
  - An Attribute is a key-value pair, which has the following structure  [Attributes](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/b00980832b4b823155001df56dbf9203d4e53f98/specification/common/README.md#attribute)

- **DroppedAttributesCount** : Integer counting the dropped attributes
- **Events**     : A set of the next tuples (timestamp, name, Attributes)
- **DroppedEventsCount** : Integer counting the dropped events
- **Links**  : links to causally-related Spans
- **DroppedLinksCount** : Integer counting the dropped links
- **Status** - 
  - UNSET= 0  -> The default status.
  - OK= 1     -> The operation has been validated by an Application developer or Operator to have completed successfully.
  - ERROR= 2  -> The operation contains an error.